doc: matter: add device type page (#8968)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_matter_overview_device_types.rst

Device types are intended to ensure interoperability of different device brands on the market.

All device types are defined in the Device Library specification, which is available to `Connectivity Standards Alliance`_ members.
Each device type definition is composed of the following elements:

* Device type ID
* Device type revision
* One or more mandatory clusters, including each cluster's minimum revision

The device type definition in the Device Library specification can change over time.
The changes are tracked using the Device Type Revision value, which is initially set to ``1``.
Changes do not modify how the device works, but only improve its functionality.

A device type can require other device types for its composition, making it a *composed device type*.

Device type overview
********************

The following tables list the application device types that are supported in the Matter specification.

* The description for each device type is taken from the Device Library specification.
* The state of the device specifies whether a device type can be subject to certification.

>   The `Provisional` state indicates that the device type is not yet ready for implementation.

Reviewer: I would try to rephrase it a little bit to better describe the situation for a user. Provisional state doesn't describe the implementation state, but rather certification state. It means that implementation is most likely ready, but this device type didn't get enough coverage (to small amount of people tested it) to claim it is certified. Would something like this suite you:
```suggestion
  The `Provisional` state indicates that the device type implementation was not yet fully tested and certified, however implementation may be ready and can be used by a user on his own risk.
```

Author: Rephrased slightly.

* The dedicated sample column provides the link to the sample in the |NCS| that implements the given device type, if available.

You can add support for device types without a dedicated sample in the |NCS| by using the :ref:`matter_template_sample` and following the :ref:`ug_matter_creating_accessory` user guide, which describes how to edit clusters of a Matter application.

.. _ug_matter_device_types_lighting:

Lighting device types
=====================

+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Device type       | Description (from Device Library specification)                              | State of the device | Dedicated sample in the |NCS|         |
+===================+==============================================================================+=====================+=======================================+

> | On/Off Light      | The On/Off Light is a lighting device that is capable of being switched on   | Certifiable         | :ref:`matter_light_bulb_sample`       |

Reviewer 2: The matter_light_bulb_sample is only a Dimmable Light
AFAIK, the device shall support one application device type per endpoint, our sample supports all necessary clusters to be validated as Dimmable Light

Author: Removed as sample for On/Off Light.

|                   | built-in sensors and a regulation mechanism. It is typically used            |                     |                                       |
|                   | for pumping fluids like water.                                               |                     |                                       |
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+

.. _ug_matter_device_types_switches_controls:

Switches and Controls device types
==================================

+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Device type       | Description (from Device Library specification)                              | State of the device | Dedicated sample in the |NCS|         |
+===================+==============================================================================+=====================+=======================================+

> | On/Off Light      | An On/Off Light Switch is a controller device that,                          | Certifiable         | :ref:`matter_light_switch_sample`     |

Reviewer 2: The same story as for the Light bulb.
The Light switch supports all necessary clusters to be validated as Dimmer Switch.

Author: Removed as example for On/Off Light Switch.

|                   | on or off, adjust the intensity of the light being emitted and adjust        |                     |                                       |
|                   | the color of the light being emitted. In addition, a Control Bridge device   |                     |                                       |
|                   | is capable of being used for setting scenes.                                 |                     |                                       |
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Pump Controller   | A Pump Controller device is capable of configuring and controlling           | Certifiable         |                                       |
|                   | a Pump device.                                                               |                     |                                       |
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+

> | Generic Switch    | General-purpose switch that can have more than two positions.                | Certifiable         |                                       |

Reviewer 2: @kkasperczyk-no Do we support the generic switch only on upstream only?

+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Occupancy Sensor  | An Occupancy Sensor is a measurement and sensing device that is capable      | Certifiable         |                                       |
|                   | of measuring and reporting the occupancy state in a designated area.         |                     |                                       |
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Temperature       | A Temperature Sensor device reports measurements of temperature.             | Certifiable         | :ref:`matter_weather_station_app`     |
| Sensor            |                                                                              |                     |                                       |
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+

> | Pressure Sensor   | A Pressure Sensor device measures and periodically reports the pressure      | Provisional         | :ref:`matter_weather_station_app`     |

Reviewer 2: Based on current spec the Pressure Sensor is not provisional

Author: Changed.

> |                   | of a fluid.                                                                  |                     |                                       |

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this pressure of a fluid. I can see that this is what the device library document says, but in our case sensor measures atmospheric pressure.

Reviewer 2: The latest Device Library Matter spec defines pressure sensors as follows:
7.5. Pressure Sensor
A Pressure Sensor device measures and reports the pressure of a fluid.

Author: No changes made. Should we remove the mention of the weather app in this line if we're not matching the device type description, @kkasperczyk-no , @doublemis1 ?

Reviewer 2: I will keep Weather Station as it is since the fluid is a Liquid or Gas

| Window Covering   | A Window Covering Controller is a device that controls an automatic window   | Certifiable         |                                       |
| Controller        | covering.                                                                    |                     |                                       |
+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+

.. _ug_matter_device_types_hvac:

HVAC device types
=================

+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+---------------------------------------+
| Device type       | Description (from Device Library specification)                              | State of the device | Dedicated sample in the |NCS|         |
+===================+==============================================================================+=====================+=======================================+

> | Heating/Cooling   | A Heating/Cooling Unit is a device capable of heating or cooling a space     | Certifiable         |                                       |

Reviewer: @doublemis1 could you confirm that? I think I heard about adding support to this device type in Matter 1.1, so I'm not sure if that was certified. The same applies to Fan controller.

Reviewer 2: You are right:
List of Provisional Items
The following is a list of provisional items.
• Support for Heating/Cooling Unit is provisional.
• Support for Fan device type is provisional.

Need to verify if the pressure sensor is set to provisional

Author: Changed both to Provisional.
